All right so let's give this limit a try.
We have a limit of a square root of x minus to everything over X minus 4 as x approaches 4.
So go ahead composite video and try this limit out.
All right.
So as you might have noticed this limit is a little bit unusual because if we try to find the limb by
plugging it in.
Then what happens.
So we have square root of four minus two over four.
Mine is four.
So we just plugged in the four into the function.
So this corrido four is two minus two is zero on the top over four minus four zero on the bottom.
So this is a problem if you have 0 0 that means you need to do something else.
And remember that when we have rules we can actually find something called the conjugate which is the
opposite of this expression with the roots.
So the conjugate for this example is going to be
cange you get.
So it's going to be the same thing but with a plus instead of a minus.
So it's this expression with a sign changed.
So the conjugate is squirted IVAX plus two.
Let's go ahead and multiply this whole fraction by the conjugate.
So we have lym as x approaches 4.
So we have square root of x minus two over X minus four.
This is just the same thing that we have here.
But now we're going to multiply both on top and bottom by the conjugate square root of x plus two square
root of x plus 2 on top and the square root of x plus 2 on the bottom.
And remember that what we do is we pretty much foil on the top so we can actually eliminate some terms.
So remember this is multiplying it's this fraction times this fraction.
So it's top Times top and bottom times bottom.
All right.
So if you remember foil tells you to multiply.
For example a plus b times c plus D you need to multiply the first.
So a times c then you need to multiply the outer a times D.
Then you need to multiply the enter B and C and then you need to multiply the last B and D.
And when I talked about first outer inner and last are just the positions of these letters.
So we have position 1 2 3 and 4.
So for example the first is the first of this expression and the first of this expression a and c the
outer will be the ones on the extremes.
So the A and the D enter are the two inner ones right here a b and c and the last is the last of each
expression.
B and D.
You probably know this by now but just covering it just in case.
So let's go ahead and do a foil on the top so we have the F which is for first.
So the first squirt of X times square root of x.
Remember that querido of X times square root of x is the same as saying
square root of x squared.
And remember that this square cancels out this route.
So that gives you x.
That's like saying a square root of four times square root of four square root of four is two times
square root of four is two two times two is four.
So it gives you back the number and the roots.
In this case we get back the X so that x and then we multiply the outer.
So the outer are a square root of x and positive to plus two times square root of x right and then multiply
that enter a negative two times square it of x.
So mine is 2 square root of x and then we have the last so negative two times to negative terms a positive
is a negative and two attempted to is four.
So it's minus 4.
And then for the bottom we're not going to multiply this.
We're just going to leave it as expressed.
All right.
So we're just going to say X minus 4 times.
Square root of x plus two.
And by the way in theory this is not the same as this because here we're finding a limit on this site.
But on the other side of the equal sign we don't have a limit.
So we'll just say that this leads to this but not exactly the same.
All right so what we can actually do here is if you notice we have two square root of x minus two square
root of x.
That's like saying five minus five.
We're just subtracting something from itself to that zero.
And we can cancel it out.
All right.
So what do we have.
We have limit as x approaches for
and then that's going to be equal to x minus 4 because we cancel out the stuff in the middle
and on the bottom we have X minus four
times square root of x plus 2.
This is the reason why we didn't do foil on the bottom.
We want to keep this X minus 4 so we can cancel it out with this X minus 4.
That's a reason why we only do foil where the conjugate is.
That's why we did foil on the top not on the bottom.
All right.
So we can cancel out the X minus 4 on the top and the X minus 4 on the bottom.
And that leaves those with limits of 1 because that's all we have left on the top.
Over square root of x plus 2.
That's all we have left in the bottom as x approaches 4 and check it out.
Now we can finally plug in the four into this function.
So that is going to be equal to what won over square root of four.
Plus two.
And let's finish it up down here 1 over square root of four is two then plus two.
And finally we have her answer one over two plus two is for the limit is 1 over 4 that is.
It's all right.
So we found out that it was 0 over 0.
That's why we had to find the conjugate again the conjugate is the same thing as the expression with
the roots only with the flip side.
So originally we had a minus so we had to put a plus if we had had a plus since that would have put
a minus for the conjugate.
Then multiply this fraction on top on bottom by the conjugate and we do foil where ever the root is.
So it's going to be on the top that lets us cancel out a couple of terms then we can cancel out even
more terms.
Now on top and bottom and after that we'll just plug in the four.
Normally that is how we get our limit.
All right so here's another exercise for you.
Find the following limit limit of X minus 9 over x squared minus 81 as x approaches 9.
All right so go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot.
All right so let's see how it works.
So you already know to find the way.
Just plug it in and you probably notice that if you plug in nine in so this fraction what's going to
happen so nine minus nine that's on top.
And on the bottom we have nine squared
minus 81
so nine minus nine is zero on the top.
And nine squared is 81.
So 81 minus 81 is zero on the bottom.
Remember this is no bueno.
We need to go ahead and do something else.
So we actually talked about the difference of squares.
It's a way of factoring out terms
difference of squares.
And just to remind you this says that for example if you have A-squared mine is B squared.
You can factor this out as a plus b times.
A mine is Pete.
It turns out that we have this right here.
So let's go ahead and rewrite this limit limit x minus 9.
And then how do we do this on the bottom x squared minus 81.
So the rule says if you have A-squared minus B squared then it's a plus b times a minus B.
So what is the A and what is the B.
In this case remember the A is not X squared and B is not 81.
B and B is what you're square to get to X squared and to 81.
That means that the A in this case is just x and B has to be 9 because 9 squared is what gives you 81
right.
So what we're going to do is now that we have a and b is say a plus b times a minus beat.
So X plus nine times X minus nine
and as x approaches 9.
All right.
And check it out.
Now though we have X minus nine on the top and on the bottom they cancel each other out.
And that gives us what that gives us limits of 1.
There's nothing else on top over X plus nine
as x approaches 9.
And at this point we can go ahead and plug it in without a problem.
So we have one over nine plus nine
and that gives one over 18.
That is our limit.
All right.
So what we did is we had zero over zero.
We noticed that in the bottom we had a difference of squares and we use the rule to factor out this
difference of squares.
And by the way it's called the difference of squares because you're subtracting.
That's the difference and then the squares you're squaring both a and b and then after we factored out
that and we cancelled out on top and bottom the X minus nine we went ahead and plugged in the nine and
we are good to go.